



ICNRG Working Group                                             M. Stapp
Internet-Draft                                                     Cisco
Intended status: Informational                                   C. Wood
Expires: April 16, 2016                                       PARC, Inc.
                                                        October 14, 2015


                         ICN Privacy Principles
                   draft-wood-icnrg-privacyprinciples

Abstract

   This document lays out a set of principles that clearly define the
   privacy requirements for ICN in the context of TCP/IP applications.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on April 16, 2016.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2015 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.





Stapp & Wood             Expires April 16, 2016                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft              PrivacyPrinciples               October 2015


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     1.1.  Conventions and Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   2.  Privacy Principles  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   3.  A Catalog of Privacy Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   4.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4

1.  Introduction

   RFC6973 [RFC6973] outlines major security and privacy threats and
   countermeasures for networking protocols.  It identifies and
   describes several attacks which can be carried out against users,
   including correlation, identification, secondary use (of personal or
   private information), unauthorized or oblivious disclosure, and user
   exclusion.  We refer the reader to [RFC6973] for more details about
   these threats.

   The authors of this document believe that the ICNRG should share the
   view of the IP community which states that passive and pervasive
   observation and surveillance is an attack on individuals'
   communication [RFC7285].  Consequently, the ICNRG should strive to
   meet or exceed the privacy protections driven by the IETF.  Moreover,
   privacy preserving mechanisms should evolve as Internet security
   threats and standards change.  This means that ICN should always use
   best practices for protecting the privacy of individuals.

   To be specific, ICN communication should use, by default, best
   practice cryptographic methods to ensure privacy and confidentiality.
   Presently, this means that all communication should be protected by
   forward-secure encryption.  We therefore claim that the mechanism to
   bootstrap this type of communication should be a native part of ICN
   rather than add-on protocols analogous to (D)TLS.

   In this document we outline several principles for private
   communication in ICN based on accepted best practices to prevent or
   deter the aforementioned threats.  We do not specify mechanisms to
   satisfy these principles since that is still an open topic of
   research in the field.

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC
   2119 [RFC2119].




Stapp & Wood             Expires April 16, 2016                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft              PrivacyPrinciples               October 2015


2.  Privacy Principles

   This section outlines a proposed set of privacy principles for ICN
   architectures.  These are inspired by recent activities in the IETF
   to prevent attacks such as mass surveillance in a plethora of
   Internet protocols, e.g., DNS and TCP.

   1.  All ICN messages should be encrypted by default.

       *  Rationale: Cleartext communication is not best practice.

   2.  The privacy of ICN messages should rely on forward-secure keys.

       *  Rationale: Privacy mechanisms based on long-lived key pairs
          are not forward-secure are not secure if the private key is
          compromised.  Moreover, long-lived key pairs can be traced to
          individuals and can lead to correlation and other information
          leakage in requests and responses.  Neither of these are
          considered best practice.

   3.  ICN messages should not reveal information about entities
       involved in the production or consumption of data beyond what can
       be learned from their relative location in the network.

       *  Rationale: Minimize information leakage and linkage between
          packets and entities involved in their transport.

   4.  Clients should always authenticate an endpoint to which personal
       identification information is sent.

       *  Rationale: Personal information should never be disclosed to
          an endpoint (e.g., a router or producer application) that is
          not authenticated.

   5.  Application data contained in an ICN message should only be
       viewable by authenticated and authorized parties.

       *  Rationale: Applications should not rely on network or link-
          layer encryption for protection since the network cannot be
          trusted.  End-to-end encryption between the client and
          endpoint serving content is best practice.

   6.  Where authentication of clients by servers is necessary (e.g.,
       for access control), per-application credentials should be used.

       *  Rationale: Compromised user credentials for one application do
          not lead cause other applications or services to also become
          compromised.



Stapp & Wood             Expires April 16, 2016                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft              PrivacyPrinciples               October 2015


3.  A Catalog of Privacy Information

   In this section we begin an enumeration of privacy-related
   information that should be considered in the context of the
   aforementioned principles.

   o  User- or -host-identifying information.

      Examples include user names, account names (or numbers), email
      addresses, source or location information, long-lived key names,
      certificates, or certificate names.

   o  Application-specific information.

      This includes any information beyond what is necessary to route
      traffic for a particular application between parties involved.

   o  Information shared across users.

      Examples include common group keys or content object names.

4.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC6973]  Cooper, A., Tschofenig, H., Aboba, B., Peterson, J.,
              Morris, J., Hansen, M., and R. Smith, "Privacy
              Considerations for Internet Protocols", RFC 6973,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC6973, July 2013,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6973>.

   [RFC7285]  Alimi, R., Ed., Penno, R., Ed., Yang, Y., Ed., Kiesel, S.,
              Previdi, S., Roome, W., Shalunov, S., and R. Woundy,
              "Application-Layer Traffic Optimization (ALTO) Protocol",
              RFC 7285, DOI 10.17487/RFC7285, September 2014,
              <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7285>.

Authors' Addresses

   Mark Stapp
   Cisco

   Email: mjs@cisco.com





Stapp & Wood             Expires April 16, 2016                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft              PrivacyPrinciples               October 2015


   Christopher A. Wood
   PARC, Inc.

   Email: christopher.wood@parc.com















































Stapp & Wood             Expires April 16, 2016                 [Page 5]
